Add Dependabot vcpkg documentation (#512)
MicrosoftDocs/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/concepts/dependabot.md

---
title: Dependabot support for vcpkg
description: This article describes how to use GitHub Dependabot to automatically update vcpkg dependencies in your projects.
author: jamagee
ms.author: jamagee
ms.date: 8/5/2025
ms.topic: concept-article
---
# Dependabot support for vcpkg

[Dependabot](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot) is GitHub's automated dependency management service
that helps keep your project dependencies up-to-date by automatically creating pull requests when new versions are

> available. Starting in 2025, Dependabot now supports [vcpkg](https://vcpkg.io/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
available. Starting in 2025, Dependabot added support for [vcpkg](https://vcpkg.io/).
```

    directory: "/" # Location of your vcpkg.json file
    schedule:
      interval: "weekly"
```

1. Customize the configuration based on your project needs:

```yaml
version: 2
updates:
  - package-ecosystem: "vcpkg"
    directory: "/"
    schedule:
      interval: "weekly"
      day: "monday"
      time: "09:00"
      timezone: "America/New_York"
    labels:
      - "dependencies"
      - "vcpkg"
    commit-message:
      prefix: "deps"
      include: "scope"
    open-pull-requests-limit: 5
```

## Configuration options

Dependabot for vcpkg supports all standard Dependabot configuration options. The key vcpkg-specific requirements are:

- `package-ecosystem` must be set to `"vcpkg"`
- `directory` should point to the location of your `vcpkg.json` file

For comprehensive configuration options see the [Dependabot options reference][dependabot-options].

### vcpkg-specific considerations

- **Test thoroughly**: Baseline updates can introduce breaking changes in dependencies.
  Always test your build after applying updates.
- **Monitor vcpkg announcements**: Watch the [vcpkg repository][vcpkg-repo] for announcements
  about breaking changes or important updates.

> - **Consider version pinning**: If you need stability, consider pinning specific dependency
>   versions in your `vcpkg.json` rather than relying solely on baseline updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Consider version pinning**: If you need some ports to stay on the same version as you move the rest forward with the baseline, consider [overriding](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/vcpkg/users/versioning#overrides) their versions in your `vcpkg.json`.
```
Updated wording to make it a bit clearer what the use case / intent is here. Let me know if I am misunderstanding your intent with this though. 

In particular, I wanted to reference the specific feature needed to pin ports, and clarify that the use case here is when you want to move some/most of your ports forward with Dependabot's help, but still be able to pin some ports and leave them behind.

### vcpkg-specific issues

**Dependabot not creating pull requests:**

- Ensure your repository has a valid `vcpkg.json` with a `builtin-baseline` field
- Verify the `directory` path in your configuration points to the correct location

**Build failures after baseline updates:**

> - Baseline updates may introduce breaking changes in dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Baseline updates may introduce breaking changes from dependencies
```
Also, adding a comment from my colleague @vicroms: does this refer to introducing breakage due to version conflicts? Or because a baseline update may introduce a "major" version change?

Author: Definitely the latter.
